.TH pblast 1 "11 January 03" "pbasic Tools" "pbasic Tools"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
pblast \- upload pbasic object code to BASIC Stamp chip
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pblast [\-hilv] <\-d <device>> [\-m <module type>] FILES...
.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBpblast\fP is a utility to "burn" or upload tokenized pbasic objects file(s)
to a BASIC Stamp chip as sold by Parallax, Inc.  \fBpblast\fP uses a RS-232c
serial port to do the dirty work of transmitting CRC'd packets of 
data to the Stamp chip.  See \fBHardware\fP for cabling.  \fBpblast\fP uses
data files (object files) as produced by the \fBptoke\fP program.
.PP
\fBpblast\fP requires the specification of a serial device file when
communicating with the Stamp chip. This will usually be one of the 
following: /dev/ttyS0 /dev/ttyS1, or the like.
.PP
\fBpblast\fP will work on multiple object files. However, \fBpblast\fP does
not do any slot number checking.  I suggest using \fBptoke\fP to assemble a composite
object file, and then burn just it using \fBblast\fP, since ptoke does check for
slot number conflicts.      
.PP
\fBpblast\fP will optionally enter into a debug mode after uploading all
files, and reseting the basic chip.  Use the \fI-i\fP option to enable
debugging.  This toggle causes pblast not to reset the DTR-ATTN line after 
uploading, and prints incoming serial data from the chip on stdout, until SIGINT.

.PP
.SH OPTIONS

.TP 4c
\fI-d <device>\fP
Use serial device file <device> REQUIRED
.PP

.TP 4c
\fI-h\fP
Pring usage
.PP

.TP 4c
\fI-i\fP
Enter debug mode after uploading
.PP

.TP 4c
\fI-l\fP
Print version and copywrite info
.PP

.TP 4c
\fI-m <type>\fP
Specify module type to expect, where type = { 2, 2e, 2sx, 2p, 2pe }
.PP

.TP 4c
\fI-v\fP
Print verbose output
.PP
.SH HARDWARE
\fBpblast\fP transmits and receives 9600 baud rs232 style date via the
standard pins (TX and RX).  But \fBpblast\fP uses the DTR pin for the
BASIC Stamp chip's ATTN line, so a certain computer to stamp to chip
cabling usually must be used.  Here's the matrix:
.IP
Function		DB9     DB25    Stamp pin
.PP
.IP
Data to stamp	3		2		2
.IP
Data fr stamp	2		3		1
.IP
Attention		4		20		3
.IP
Ground		5		7		4
.PP
This arrangement is identicle to the standard DB to BASIC Stamp 
cabling as documented and sold by Parallax, Inc.  Additionally,
you may with to install a toggle switch for the DTR line to allow
for standard terminal programs (e.g. minicom) to easy talk to 
the stamp chip without resetting it via the DTR line.  Also, one
might wish to loop the DSR/RTS pins to defeat your terminal/uart's
requirement for hardware handshaking.
.pp
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 4c
.B pblast -d /dev/ttyS1 obj.bso obj2.bso
Uploads obj.bso and obj2.bso to chip connected at /dev/ttyS1
.TP 4c
.B pblast -d /dev/ttyS0 obj.bso -iv
Uploads obj.bso to chip connect at /dev/ttyS0, verbosely, and
then enter debug mode.

.SH BUGS
yes, plenty.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBptoke\fP(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Brett M. Gordon
beretta@eohio.net
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) Brett M. Gordon
 
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.br




